# king #

## Definition: ##

The term "king" refers to a man who is the supreme ruler of a city, state, or country.

* A king is usually chosen to rule because of his family relation to previous kings.
* When a king dies, it is usually his oldest son who becomes the next king.
* In ancient times, the king had absolute authority over the people in his kingdom.
* Rarely the term "king" may be used to refer to someone who is not a true king, such as "King Herod" in the New Testament.
* In the Bible, God is often referred to as a king who rules over his people.
* The "kingdom of God" refers to God's rule over his people.
* Jesus was called "king of the Jews," "king of Israel," and "king of kings."
* When Jesus comes back, he will rule as king over the world.
* This term could also be translated as, "supreme chief" or "absolute leader" or "sovereign ruler."
* The phrase "king of kings" could be translated as,  "king who rules over all other kings" or "supreme ruler who has authority over all other rulers."



## Bible References: ##

* [1 Timothy 06:15-16](en/tn/1ti/help/06/15)
* [2 Kings 05:17-19](en/tn/2ki/help/05/17)
* [2 Samuel 05:3-5](en/tn/2sa/help/05/03)
* [Acts 07:9-10](en/tn/act/help/07/09)
* [Acts 13:21-22](en/tn/act/help/13/21)
* [John 01:49-51](en/tn/jhn/help/01/49)
* [Luke 01:5-7](en/tn/luk/help/01/05)
* [Luke 22:24-25](en/tn/luk/help/22/24)
* [Matthew 05:33-35](en/tn/mat/help/05/33)
* [Matthew 14:8-9](en/tn/mat/help/14/08)

##Examples from the Bible stories: ##

  __*[08:06](en/tn/obs/help/08/06)__  One night, the Pharaoh, which is what the Egyptians called their kings, had two dreams that disturbed him greatly.
  __*[16:01](en/tn/obs/help/16/01)__  The Israelites had no __king__, so everyone did what they thought was right for them.
  __*[16:18](en/tn/obs/help/16/18)__  Finally, the people asked God for a __king__ like all the other nations had.
  __*[17:05](en/tn/obs/help/17/05)__  Eventually, Saul died in battle, and David became __king__ of Israel. He was a good __king__, and the people loved him.
  __*[21:06](en/tn/obs/help/21/06)__  God's prophets also said that the Messiah would be a prophet, a priest, and a __king__.
  __*[48:14](en/tn/obs/help/48/14)__  David was the __king__ of Israel, but Jesus is the __king__ of the entire universe! 



~~NOCACHE~~