# hand, right hand, to hand over

## Definition

There are several figurative ways that "hand" is used in the Bible:

* The term "hand" is often used in reference to God's power and action, such as when God says, "Has not my hand made all these things?" (See: [[en/ta-vol2/translate/man/figs_metonymy]])
* Expressions such as "hand over to" or "deliver into the hands of" refer to causing someone to be under the control or power of someone else.
* To "hand" something someone means to "give" it to them.
* The term "laying on of hands" refers to placing a hand on a person in order to dedicate that person to God's service or to pray for healing.
* Some other figurative uses of "hand" include:
* "Do not lay a hand on" means "Do not harm."
* To "save from the hand of" means to stop someone from harming someone else.
* To be "close at hand" means to be "nearby."
* The position of being "on the right hand" means "on the right side" or "to the right."
* The phrase "by the hand of" someone means "by" or "through" the action of that person. For example, "by the hand of the Lord" means that the Lord is the one who caused something to happen.
* When Paul says "written by my hand," it means that this part of the letter was physically written down by him, rather than dictated to someone else to write down.


## Translation Suggestions



* These idioms and other figures of speech could be translated using other figurative expressions that have the same meaning. Or the meaning could be translated using direct, literal language