# angel, archangel

## Definition

An angel is a powerful spirit being whom God created. Angels exist to serve God by doing whatever he tells them to do. The term "archangel" refers to the angel who rules or leads all the other angels.

* The word "angel" literally means "messenger."
* The term "archangel" literally means "chief messenger." The only angel referred to in the Bible as an "archangel" is Michael.
* In the Bible, angels gave messages to people from God. These messages included instructions about what God wanted the people to do.
* Angels also told people about events that were going to happen in the future or events that had already happened.
* Angels have God's authority as his representatives and sometimes in the Bible they spoke as if God himself was speaking.
* Other ways that angels serve God is by protecting and strengthening people.
* A special phrase, "angel of Yahweh" has more than one possible meaning: 1) It may mean "angel who represents Yahweh" or "messenger who serves Yahweh." 2) It may refer to Yahweh himself, who looked like an angel as he talked to a person. Either one of these meanings would explain the angel's use of "I" as if Yahweh himself was talking.


## Translation Suggestions



* Ways to translate "angel" could include, "messenger from God" or "God's heavenly servant" or "God's spirit messenger."
* The term "archangel" could be translated as "chief angel" or "head ruling angel" or "leader of the angels."
* Also consider how these terms are translated in a national language or another local language.
* The phrase "angel of Yahweh" should be translated using the words for "angel" and "Yahweh." This will allow for different interpretations of that phrase. Possible translations could include, "angel from Yahweh" or "angel sent by Yahweh" or "Yahweh who looked like an angel."