# Joseph (NT) #

## Facts: ##

Joseph was Jesus' earthly father and raised him as his son. He was a righteous man who worked as a carpenter.

* Joseph became engaged to a Jewish girl named Mary, whom God had chosen to be the mother of Jesus the Messiah.
* An angel told Joseph that the Holy Spirit had miraculously caused Mary to be pregnant, and that Mary's baby was the Son of God.
* After Jesus was born, an angel warned Joseph to take the baby and Mary to Egypt in order to escape from Herod.
* Joseph and his family lived in the city of Nazareth of Galilee, where he earned a living doing carpentry work.

(Translation suggestions: [How to Translate Names](en/ta-vol1/translate/man/translate-names))

(See also: [[../kt/christ.md]], [[../other/galilee.md]],[[../kt/jesus.md]], [[../other/nazareth.md]], [[../kt/sonofgod.md]], [[../other/virgin.md]])

## Bible References: ##

* [John 01:43-45](en/tn/jhn/help/01/43)
* [Luke 01:26-29](en/tn/luk/help/01/26)
* [Luke 02:4-5](en/tn/luk/help/02/04)
* [Luke 02:15-16](en/tn/luk/help/02/15)
* [Matthew 01:18-19](en/tn/mat/help/01/18)
* [Matthew 01:24-25](en/tn/mat/help/01/24)
* [Matthew 02:19-21](en/tn/mat/help/02/19)
* [Matthew 13:54-56](en/tn/mat/help/13/54)

## Examples from the Bible stories: ##

  __*[22:04](en/tn/obs/help/22/04)__ She (Mary) was a virgin and was engaged to be married to a man named __Joseph__.
  __*[23:01](en/tn/obs/help/23/01)__ __Joseph__, the man Mary was engaged to, was a righteous man. When he heard that Mary was pregnant, he knew it was not his baby. He did not want to shame her, so he planned to quietly divorce her.
  __*[23:02](en/tn/obs/help/23/02)__ The angel said, "__Joseph__, do not be afraid to take Mary as your wife. The baby in her body is from the Holy Spirit. She will give birth to a son. Name him Jesus (which means, 'Yahweh saves'), because he will save the people from their sins."
  __*[23:03](en/tn/obs/help/23/03)__ So __Joseph__ married Mary and took her home as his wife, but he did not sleep with her until she had given birth.
  __*[23:04](en/tn/obs/help/23/04)__ __Joseph__ and Mary had to make a long journey from where they lived in Nazareth to Bethlehem because their ancestor was David whose hometown was Bethlehem.
  __*[26:04](en/tn/obs/help/26/04)__ Jesus said, "The words I just read to you are happening right now." All the people were amazed. "Isn't this the son of __Joseph__?" they said.