# Pilate #

## Facts: ##

Pilate was the governor of the Roman province of Judea who sentenced Jesus to death.

* Because Pilate was the governor, he had the authority to put criminals to death.
* The Jewish religious leaders wanted Pilate to crucify Jesus, so they lied and said that Jesus was a criminal.
* Pilate realized that Jesus was not guilty, but he was afraid of the crowd and wanted to please them, so he ordered his soldiers to crucify Jesus.

(Translation suggestions: [How to Translate Names](en/ta-vol1/translate/man/translate-names))

(See also: [[kt/crucify]] **路** [[other/governor]] **路** [[kt/guilt]] **路** [[other/judea]] **路** [[other/rome]])

## Bible References: ##

* [Acts 04:27-28](en/tn/act/help/04/27)
* [Acts 13:28-29](en/tn/act/help/13/28)
* [Luke 23:1-2](en/tn/luk/help/23/01)
* [Mark 15:1-3](en/tn/mrk/help/15/01)
* [Matthew 27:11-14](en/tn/mat/help/27/11)
* [Matthew 27:57-58](en/tn/mat/help/27/57)

## Examples from the Bible stories: ##

  __*[39:09](en/tn/obs/help/39/09)__ Early the next morning, the Jewish leaders brought Jesus to __Pilate__, the Roman governor. They hoped that __Pilate__ would condemn Jesus as guilty and sentenced him to be killed. __Pilate__ asked Jesus, "Are you the King of the Jews?"
  __*[39:10](en/tn/obs/help/39/10)__ __Pilate__ said, "What is truth?"
  __*[39:11](en/tn/obs/help/39/11)__ After speaking with Jesus, __Pilate__ went out to the crowd and said, "I find no guilt in this man." But the Jewish leaders and the crowd shouted, "Crucify him!" __Pilate__ replied, "He is not guilty." But they shouted even louder. Then __Pilate__ said a third time, "He is not guilty!"
  __*[39:12](en/tn/obs/help/39/12)__ __Pilate__ became afraid that the crowd would begin to riot, so he ordered his soldiers to crucify Jesus.
  __*[40:02](en/tn/obs/help/40/02)__ __Pilate__ commanded that a sign be put above Jesus' head that read, "King of the Jews."
  __*[41:02](en/tn/obs/help/41/02)__ __Pilate__ said, "Take some soldiers and make the tomb as secure as you can."