# good, goodness

## Definition

The word "good" has different meanings depending on the context. Many languages will use different words to translate these different meanings.

* In general, something is good if it fits with God's character, purposes, and will.
* Something that is "good" could be pleasing, excellent, helpful, suitable, profitable, or morally right.
* Land that is "good" could be called "fertile" or "productive."
* A "good" crop could be a "plentiful" crop.
* A person can be "good" at what they do if they are skillful at their task or profession, as in, "a good farmer."
* In the Bible, the general meaning of "good" is often contrasted with "evil."
* The term "goodness" usually refers to being morally good or righteous in thoughts and actions.
* The goodness of God refers to how he blesses people by giving them good and beneficial things. It also can refer to his moral perfection.


## Translation Suggestions



* The general term for "good" in the target language should be used wherever this general meaning is accurate and natural, especially in contexts where it is contrasted to evil.
* Depending on the context, other ways to translate this term could include, "kind" or "excellent" or "pleasing to God" or "righteous" or "morally upright" or "profitable."
* "Good land" could be translated as, "fertile land" or "productive land"; a "good crop" could be translated as a "plentiful harvest" or "large amount of crops."
* The phrase "do good to" means to do something that benefits others and could be translated as "be kind to" or "help" or "benefit" someone.
* Depending on the context, ways to translate the term "goodness" could include, "blessing" or "kindness" or "moral perfection" or "righteousness" or "purity."