# Isaiah #

## Facts: ##

Isaiah was a prophet of God who prophesied during the reigns of four kings of Judah: Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah.

* He lived in Jerusalem during the time when the Assyrians were attacking the city, during the reign of Hezekiah.
* The Old Testament book of Isaiah is one of the major books of the Bible.
* Isaiah wrote many prophecies that came true while he was still living.
* Isaiah is especially known for the prophecies he wrote about the Messiah that came true 700 years later when Jesus was living on earth.
* Jesus and his disciples quoted Isaiah's prophecies to teach people about the Messiah. 

(Translation suggestions: [How to Translate Names](en/ta-vol1/translate/man/translate-names))

(See also: [[other/ahaz]], [[other/assyria]], [[kt/christ]], [[other/hezekiah]], [[other/jotham]], [[other/kingdomofjudah]], [[kt/prophet]], [[other/uzziah]])

## Bible References: ##

* [2 Kings 20:1-3](en/tn/2ki/help/20/01)
* [Acts 28:25-26](en/tn/act/help/28/25)
* [Isaiah 01:1](en/tn/isa/help/01/01)
* [Luke 03:4](en/tn/luk/help/03/04)
* [Mark 01:1-3](en/tn/mrk/help/01/01)
* [Mark 07:6-7](en/tn/mrk/help/07/06)
* [Matthew 03:1-3](en/tn/mat/help/03/01)
* [Matthew 04:14-16](en/tn/mat/help/04/14)

## Examples from the Bible stories: ##

  __*[21:09](en/tn/obs/help/21/09)__ The prophet __Isaiah__ prophesied that the Messiah would be born from a virgin.
  __*[21:10](en/tn/obs/help/21/10)__ The prophet __Isaiah__ said the Messiah would live in Galilee, comfort broken-hearted people, and proclaim freedom to captives and release to prisoners. 
  __*[21:11](en/tn/obs/help/21/11)__ The prophet __Isaiah__ also prophesied that the Messiah would be hated without reason and rejected.
  __*[21:12](en/tn/obs/help/21/12)__ __Isaiah__ prophesied that people would spit on, mock, and beat the Messiah. 
  __*[26:02](en/tn/obs/help/26/02)__ They handed him (Jesus) the scroll of the prophet __Isaiah__ so that he would read from it. Jesus opened up the scroll and read part of it to the people.
  __*[45:08](en/tn/obs/help/45/08)__ When Philip approached the chariot, he heard the Ethiopian reading from what the prophet __Isaiah__ wrote.
  __*[45:10](en/tn/obs/help/45/10)__ Philip explained to the Ethiopian that __Isaiah__ was writing about Jesus.