# Yahweh

## Facts

The term "Yahweh" is God's personal name that he revealed to Moses at the burning bush. God said that this was his name forever.

* The name "Yahweh" comes from the word meaning "to be."
* It can mean "he is" or "I am" or "the one who causes to be."
* This name reveals that God is eternal; he has always lived and will continue to live forever. He did not need anyone to create him or to give him life. It also means that he is always present.
* Many Bible versions in major languages such as English, French, and Spanish have used an equivalent of "the LORD" to represent "Yahweh," as in the phrase, "I am the LORD your God" and in many other contexts.
* However, the ULB and UDB only translate God's name literally, as "Yahweh."
* In the New Testament, the original text uses the terms, "God" or "Lord" or "Father" to refer to God; the term "Yahweh" is not used in the New Testament.


## Translation Suggestions



* This term could be translated by a word or phrase that means "I am" or "living one" or "the one who is" or "he who is alive."
* This term could also be written in a similar way to how "Yahweh" is spelled.
* Note that "Jehovah" is //not// a good translation of this term. In the past, the Jews said "Lord" instead of Yahweh and eventually some people took the vowels from the Hebrew word for Lord and replaced the vowels in the Hebrew word Yahweh. This resulted in the contrived spelling, "Jehovah," which is //not// an accurate way to spell God's personal name.