# son

## Definition

The term "son" refers to a boy or man in relation to his parents. It can refer either to someone's male offspring or adopted son.

* The phrase "son of" is frequently used in the Bible to say exactly which person is being talked about. For example, in 1 Kings 4, "Azariah, son of Zadok" is a different person than "Azariah, son of Nathan." These two men are also different from "Azariah, son of Amaziah" in 2 Kings 15. This is similar to how family names are used in modern times to tell the difference between people who have the same first name.
* This term can also be used as a polite form of address to a boy or man who is younger.
* "Son" is often used figuratively in the Bible to refer to any male descendant, such as a grandson or great-grandson.
* Sometimes "sons of God" is used figuratively in the New Testament to refer to believers in Christ.
* Another figurative use of son means "having the nature or characteristics of" as in:
* "sons of the light"
* "sons of disobedience"
* "son of peace"
* "sons of thunder"


## Translation Suggestions



* In most occurrences of this term, it is best to translate "son" using the literal term in the language that is used to refer to a son.
* When translating the term "Son of God," the usual, common term for "son" should be used.
* When used to refer to a descendant rather than a direct son, the term "descendant" could be used, as in referring to Jesus as the "descendant of David" or in genealogies where sometimes "son" refers to a male descendant.
* Sometimes "sons" can be translated as "children" when both males and females are being referred to. For example, "sons of God" could be translated as "children of God" since this expression also includes girls and women.
* The figurative expression "son of" can be translated as "someone who has the characteristics of" or "someone who is like" or "someone who has" or "someone who acts like."