# love

## Definition

To love another person is to care for that person and do things that will benefit him. There are different meanings for "love" which some languages may express using different words:1. The kind of love that comes from God is focused on the good of others, even when it doesn't benefit oneself. This kind of love cares for others, no matter what they do. God himself is love and is the source of true love. 

* Jesus showed this kind of love by sacrificing his life in order to rescue us from sin and death. He also taught his followers to love others sacrificially.
* When people love others with this kind of love, it involves actions that show that someone is thinking of what will cause the other person to be thrive. This kind of love especially includes forgiving others.
* In the ULB, the word "love" refers to this kind of sacrificial love by God, unless a Translation Note indicates a different meaning.
2. Another word in the New Testament refers to brotherly love or love for a friend or family member. This is natural human love between friends or relatives.

* This kind of love is also used in such contexts as, "They love to sit in the most important seats at a banquet." This means that they "prefer" or "like very much" to do that.
3. The word "love" can also refer to romantic love between a man and a woman.

## Translation Suggestions



* Unless indicated otherwise in a Translation Note, the word "love" in the ULB refers to the kind of sacrificial love that comes from God.
* Some languages may have a special word for the unselfish kind of love that God has for people and that he helps people have for others. Ways to translate this might include, "devoted, faithful caring" or "care for unselfishly" or "love from God." Make sure that the word used to translate God's love can include the characteristics of not being focused on self, of giving up one's own interests to benefit others, and loving others no matter what they do.
* Sometimes the English word "love" describes the deep caring that people have for friends and family members. Some languages might translate this with a word or phrase that means, "like very much" or "care for" or "have strong affection for."
* In contexts where "love" is used to express a strong preference for a thing, food, or activity, this could be translated by "strongly prefer" or "like very much" or "greatly desire."
* Some languages may also have a separate word that refers to romantic or sexual love between a husband and wife.
* Many languages must express "love" as an action. So for example, they might translate "love is patient, love is kind" as, "when a person loves someone, he is patient with him and kind to him."