# Israel, Israelites, nation of Israel #

## Facts: ##

The term "Israel" is the name that God gave to Jacob. It means, "he struggles with God."

* The descendants of Jacob became known as the "people of Israel," the "nation of Israel," or the "Israelites."
* God formed his covenant with the people of Israel. They were his chosen people.
* The nation of Israel was made up of twelve tribes.
* Soon after King Solomon died, Israel was divided into two kingdoms: the southern kingdom, called "Judah" and the northern kingdom, called "Israel."
* Often the term "Israel" can be translated as, "the people of Israel" or "the nation of Israel," depending on the context.



## Bible References: ##

* [1 Chronicles 10:1-3](en/tn/1ch/help/10/01)
* [1 Kings 08:1-2](en/tn/1ki/help/08/01)
* [Acts 02:34-36](en/tn/act/help/02/34)
* [Acts 07:22-25](en/tn/act/help/07/22)
* [Acts 13:23-25](en/tn/act/help/13/23)
* [John 01:49-51](en/tn/jhn/help/01/49)
* [Luke 24:21](en/tn/luk/help/24/21)
* [Mark 12:28-31](en/tn/mrk/help/12/28)
* [Matthew 02:4-6](en/tn/mat/help/02/04)
* [Matthew 27:9-10](en/tn/mat/help/27/09)
* [Philippians 03:4-5](en/tn/php/help/03/04)

## Examples from the Bible stories: ##

  __*[08:15](en/tn/obs/help/08/15)__ The descendants of the twelve sons became the twelve tribes of __Israel__.
  __*[09:03](en/tn/obs/help/09/03)__ The Egyptians forced the __Israelites__ to build many buildings and even whole cities.
  __*[09:05](en/tn/obs/help/09/05)__ A certain __Israelite__ woman gave birth to a baby boy.
  __*[10:01](en/tn/obs/help/10/01)__ They said, "This is what the God of __Israel__ says, 'Let my people go!'"
  __*[14:12](en/tn/obs/help/14/12)__ But despite all this, the people of __Israel __ complained and grumbled against God and against Moses.
  __*[15:09](en/tn/obs/help/15/09)__ God fought for __Israel__ that day. He caused the Amorites to be confused and he sent large hailstones that killed many of the Amorites.
  __*[15:12](en/tn/obs/help/15/12)__ After this battle, God gave each tribe of __Israel __ its own section of the Promised Land. Then God gave __Israel__ peace along all its borders.
  __*[16:16](en/tn/obs/help/16/16)__ So God punished __Israel __ again for worshiping idols.
  __*[43:06](en/tn/obs/help/43/06)__ "Men of __Israel__, Jesus was a man who did many mighty signs and wonders by the power of God, as you have seen and already know."