# Nazareth, Nazarene #

## Facts: ##

Nazareth is a town in the region of Galilee in northern Israel. It was about 100 kilometers north of Jerusalem, which took about three to five days to travel on foot.

* Joseph and Mary were from Nazareth, and this is where they raised Jesus. That is why Jesus was known as "the Nazarene."
* Many of the Jews living in Nazareth did not respect Jesus' teaching, because he had grown up among them and they thought he was just an ordinary person.
* Once when Jesus was teaching in the Nazareth synagogue, the Jews there tried to kill him because he claimed to be the Messiah and had rebuked them for rejecting him.
* Nathanael's remark when he heard that Jesus was from Nazareth indicates that this city was not thought of very highly.

(See also: [[kt/christ]] **·** [[other/galilee]] **·** [[other/josephnt]] **·** [[other/mary]])

## Bible References: ##

* [Acts 26:9-11](en/tn/act/help/26/09)
* [John 01:43-45](en/tn/jhn/help/01/43)
* [Luke 01:26-29](en/tn/luk/help/01/26)
* [Mark 16:5-7](en/tn/mrk/help/16/05)
* [Matthew 02:22-23](en/tn/mat/help/02/22)
* [Matthew 21:9-11](en/tn/mat/help/21/09)
* [Matthew 26:71-72](en/tn/mat/help/26/71)

## Examples from the Bible stories: ##

  __*[23:04](en/tn/obs/help/23/04)__ Joseph and Mary had to make a long journey from where they lived in __Nazareth__ to Bethlehem because their ancestor was David whose hometown was Bethlehem.
  __*[26:02](en/tn/obs/help/26/02)__ Jesus went to the town of __Nazareth__ where he had lived during his childhood.
  __*[26:07](en/tn/obs/help/26/07)__ The people of __Nazareth__ dragged Jesus out of the place of worship and brought him to the edge of a cliff to throw him off of it in order to kill him.