# Lazarus #

## Facts: ##

Lazarus and his sisters, Mary and Martha, were special friends of Jesus. Jesus often stayed with them in their home in Bethany.

* Lazarus is best known for the fact that Jesus raised him from the dead after he had been buried in a tomb for several days.
* The Jewish leaders were angry at Jesus and jealous that he had done this miracle, and they tried to find a way to kill both Jesus and Lazarus.
* Jesus also told a parable about a poor beggar and a rich man in which the beggar was named "Lazarus."

(Translation suggestions: [How to Translate Names](en/ta-vol1/translate/man/translate-names))

(See also: [[other/beg]], [[other/jewishleaders]], [[other/martha]], [[other/mary]], [[kt/raise]])

## Bible References: ##

* [John 11:10-11](en/tn/jhn/help/11/10)
* [John 12:1-3](en/tn/jhn/help/12/01)
* [Luke 16:19-21](en/tn/luk/help/16/19)

## Examples from the Bible stories: ##

* __[37:01](en/tn/obs/help/37/01)__ One day, Jesus received a message that __Lazarus__  was very sick. __Lazarus__  and his two sisters, Mary and Martha, were close friends of Jesus.
* __[37:02](en/tn/obs/help/37/02)__ Jesus said, "Our friend __Lazarus__  has fallen asleep, and I must wake him."
* __[37:03](en/tn/obs/help/37/03)__ Jesus' disciples replied, "Master, if __Lazarus__  is sleeping, then he will get better." Then Jesus told them plainly, "__Lazarus__  is dead."
* __[37:04](en/tn/obs/help/37/04)__ When Jesus arrived at __Lazarus'__  hometown, __Lazarus__  had already been dead for four days.
* __[37:06](en/tn/obs/help/37/06)__ Jesus asked them, "Where have you put __Lazarus__?"
* __[37:09](en/tn/obs/help/37/09)__ Then Jesus shouted, "__Lazarus__, come out!"
* __[37:10](en/tn/obs/help/37/10)__ So __Lazarus__  came out! He was still wrapped in grave clothes.
* __[37:11](en/tn/obs/help/37/11)__ But the religious leaders of the Jews were jealous, so they gathered together to plan how they could kill Jesus and __Lazarus__.