# Elijah #

## Facts: ##

Elijah was one of the most important prophets of Yahweh. Elijah prophesied during the reigns of several kings of Israel and Judah, including King Ahab.

 * God did many miracles through Elijah, including raising a dead boy back to life.
 * Elijah rebuked King Ahab for worshiping the false god Baal.
 * He challenged the prophets of Baal to a test that proved that Yahweh is the only true God.
 * At the end of Elijah's life, God miraculously took him up to heaven while he was still alive.
 * Hundreds of years later, Elijah, along with Moses, appeared with Jesus on a mountain, and they talked together about Jesus' coming suffering and death in Jerusalem.

(Translation suggestions: [How to Translate Names](en/ta-vol1/translate/man/translate-names))

(See also: [[kt/miracle]], [[kt/prophet]], [[kt/yahweh]])

## Bible References: ##

* [1 Kings 17:1](en/tn/1ki/help/17/01)
* [2 Kings 01:3-4](en/tn/2ki/help/01/03)
* [James 05:16-18](en/tn/jas/help/05/16)
* [John 01:19-21](en/tn/jhn/help/01/19)
* [John 01:24-25](en/tn/jhn/help/01/24)
* [Mark 09:4-6](en/tn/mrk/help/09/04)

## Examples from the Bible stories: ##

  __*[19:02](en/tn/obs/help/19/02)__ __Elijah__ was a prophet when Ahab was king over the kingdom of Israel.
  __*[19:02](en/tn/obs/help/19/02)__ __Elijah__ said to Ahab, "There will be no rain or dew in the kingdom of Israel until I say so."
  __*[19:03](en/tn/obs/help/19/03)__ God told __Elijah__ to go to a stream in the wilderness to hide from Ahab who wanted to kill him. Every morning and every evening, birds would bring him bread and meat.
  __*[19:04](en/tn/obs/help/19/04)__ But they took care of __Elijah__, and God provided for them so that their flour jar and their bottle of oil never became empty.
  __*[19:05](en/tn/obs/help/19/05)__ After three and a half years, God told __Elijah__ to return to the kingdom of Israel and speak with Ahab because he was going to send rain again.
  __*[19:07](en/tn/obs/help/19/07)__ Then __Elijah__ said to the prophets of Baal, "Kill a bull and prepare it as a sacrifice, but do not light the fire."
  __*[19:12](en/tn/obs/help/19/12)__ Then __Elijah__ said, "Do not let any of the prophets of Baal escape!"
  __*[36:03](en/tn/obs/help/36/03)__ Then Moses and the prophet __Elijah__ appeared. These men had lived hundreds of years before this. They talked with Jesus about his death that would soon happen in Jerusalem.