# servant, slave, slavery #

## Definition: ##

The word for "servant" can also mean "slave" and refers to a person who works for another person, either by choice or by force. The surrounding text usually makes it clear whether a servant or a slave is being referred to.

* In Bible times, there was less of a difference between a servant and a slave than there is today. Both servants and slaves were an important part of their master's household and many were treated almost like members of the family. Sometimes a servant would choose to become a lifetime servant to his master.
* A slave is a kind of servant who is the property of the person he works for. The person who buys a slave is called his "owner" or "master." Some masters treat their slaves very cruelly, while other masters treat their slaves very well, like a servant who is a valued member of the household.
* In ancient times, some people willingly became slaves to a person they owed money to in order to pay off their debt to that person. 
* In the Bible, the phrase "I am your servant" was used as a sign of respect and service to a person of higher rank, such as a king. It does not mean that the person speaking was an actual servant.
* In the Old Testament, God's prophets and other people who worshiped God are often referred to as his "servants."
* In the New Testament, people who obey God through faith in Christ are often called his "servants."
* Christians are also called "slaves to righteousness," which is a metaphor that compares the commitment to obey God to a slave's commitment to obeying his master. (See: [Metaphor](en/ta-vol1/translate/man/figs-metaphor))

(See also: [[../other/commit.md]], [[../kt/enslave.md]], [[../other/household.md]], [[../kt/lord.md]], [[../other/obey/.md]], [[../kt/righteous.md]], [[../other/serve.md]])

## Bible References: ##

* [Acts 04:29-31](en/tn/act/help/04/29)
* [Acts 10:7-8](en/tn/act/help/10/07)
* [Colossians 01:7-8](en/tn/col/help/01/07)
* [Colossians 03:22-25](en/tn/col/help/03/22)
* [Genesis 21:10-11](en/tn/gen/help/21/10)
* [Luke 12:47-48](en/tn/luk/help/12/47)
* [Mark 09:33-35](en/tn/mrk/help/09/33)
* [Matthew 10:24-25](en/tn/mat/help/10/24)
* [Matthew 13:27-28](en/tn/mat/help/13/27)

## Examples from the Bible stories: ##

  __*[06:01](en/tn/obs/help/06/01)__ When Abraham was very old and his son, Isaac, had grown to be a man, Abraham sent one of his __servants__ back to the land where his relatives lived to find a wife for his son, Isaac.
  __*[08:04](en/tn/obs/help/08/04)__ The __slave__ traders sold Joseph as a __slave__ to a wealthy government official.
  __*[09:13](en/tn/obs/help/09/13)__ "I (God) will send you (Moses) to Pharaoh so that you can bring the Israelites out of their __slavery__ in Egypt."
  __*[19:10](en/tn/obs/help/19/10)__ Then Elijah prayed, "O Yahweh, God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, show us today that you are the God of Israel and that I am your __servant__."
  __*[29:03](en/tn/obs/help/29/03)__ "Since the __servant__ could not pay the debt, the king said, 'Sell this man and his family as __slaves__ to make payment on his debt.'"
  __*[35:06](en/tn/obs/help/35/06)__ "All my father's __servants__ have plenty to eat, and yet here I am starving."
  __*[47:04](en/tn/obs/help/47/04)__ The __slave__ girl kept yelling as they walked, "These men are servants of the Most High God. 
  __*[50:04](en/tn/obs/help/50/04)__ Jesus also said, "A __servant__ is not greater than his master."