# Abraham, Abram #

## Facts: ##

Abram was a Chaldean man from the city of Ur who was chosen by God to be the forefather of the Israelites. God changed his name to "Abraham."

* The name "Abram" means "exalted father"
* "Abraham" means, "father of many."
* God promised Abraham that he would have many descendants, who would become a great nation.
* Abraham believed God and obeyed him. God led Abraham to move from Chaldea to the land of Canaan.
* While living in the land of Canaan, when they were very old, Abraham and his wife Sarah had a son, Isaac.

(Translation suggestions: [Translate Names](en/ta-vol1/translate/man/translate-names))



## Bible References: ##

* [Galatians 03:6-9](en/tn/gal/help/03/06)
* [Genesis 11:29-30](en/tn/gen/help/11/29)
* [Genesis 21:1-4](en/tn/gen/help/21/01)
* [Genesis 22:1-3](en/tn/gen/help/22/01)
* [James 02:21-24](en/tn/jas/help/02/21)
* [Matthew 01:1-3](en/tn/mat/help/01/01)

##Examples from the Bible stories: ##

* __[04:06](en/tn/obs/help/04/06)__ When __Abram__  arrived in Canaan, God said, "Look all around you. I will give to you and your descendants all the land that you can see as an inheritance."
* __[05:04](en/tn/obs/help/05/04)__ Then God changed __Abram__'s name to __Abraham__, which means "father of many."
* __[05:05](en/tn/obs/help/05/05)__ About a year later, when __Abraham__  was 100 years old and Sarah was 90, Sarah gave birth to Abraham's son.
* __[05:06](en/tn/obs/help/05/06)__ When Isaac was a young man, God tested __Abraham's__  faith by saying, "Take Isaac, your only son, and kill him as a sacrifice to me."
* __[06:01](en/tn/obs/help/06/01)__ When __Abraham__  was very old and his son, Isaac, had grown to be a man, __Abraham__  sent one of his servants back to the land where his relatives lived to find a wife for his son, Isaac.
* __[06:04](en/tn/obs/help/06/04)__ After a long time, __Abraham__  died and all of the promises that God had made to him in the covenant were passed on to Isaac.
* __[21:02](en/tn/obs/help/21/02)__ God promised __Abraham__  that through him all people groups of the world would receive a blessing.