# courtyard, court #

## Definition: ##

The terms "courtyard" and "court" refer to an enclosed area that is open to the sky and surrounded by walls. The term "court" also refers to a place where judges decide legal and criminal matters.

* The tabernacle was surrounded by one courtyard which was enclosed by walls made of thick, cloth curtains. 
* The temple complex had three inner courtyards: one for the priests, one for Jewish men, and one for Jewish women.
* These inner courtyards were surrounded by a low stone wall that separated them from an outer courtyard where Gentiles were permitted to worship.
* The courtyard of a house was an open area in the middle of the house.
* The phrase "king's court" can refer to his palace or to a place in his palace where he makes judgments.
* The expression, "courts of Yahweh" is a figurative way of referring to Yahweh's dwelling place or to the place where people go to worship Yahweh.

## Translation Suggestions: ##
 
* The term "courtyard" could be translated as "enclosed space" or "walled-in land" or "temple grounds" or "temple enclosure."
* Sometimes the term "temple" may need to be translated as "temple courtyards" or "temple complex" so that it is clear that the courtyards are being referred to, not the temple building.
* The expression, "courts of Yahweh" could be translated as, "place where Yahweh lives" or "place where Yahweh is worshiped."
* The term used for a king's court could also be used to refer to Yahweh's court.

(See also: [[other/gentile]], [[other/judgeposition]], [[other/king]], [[kt/tabernacle]], [[kt/temple]])

## Bible References: ##

* [2 Kings 20:4-5](en/tn/2ki/help/20/04)
* [Exodus 27:9-10](en/tn/exo/help/27/09)
* [Jeremiah 19:14-15](en/tn/jer/help/19/14)
* [Luke 22:54-55](en/tn/luk/help/22/54)
* [Matthew 26:69-70](en/tn/mat/help/26/69)
* [Numbers 03:24-26](en/tn/num/help/03/24)
* [Psalms 065:4](en/tn/psa/help/65/04)