# thief, thieves, robber #

## Facts: ##

The terms "thief" and "thieves" refer in general to people who steal money or property from other people. The term "robber" often refers to a thief who also physically harms or threatens the people he is stealing from.

* Jesus told a parable about a Samaritan man who took care of a man who had been attacked by robbers. The robbers had beaten the man and wounded him before stealing his money and clothing.
* Both thieves and robbers come suddenly to steal, when people are not expecting it. Often they use the cover of darkness to hide what they are doing.
* In a figurative sense, the New Testament describes Satan as a thief who comes to steal, kill, and destroy. This means that Satan's plan is to try to get God's people to stop obeying him, stealing from them the good things God has planned for them to experience.
* Jesus compared the suddenness of his return to the suddenness of a thief coming to steal from people. Just as a thief comes at a time when people are not expecting it, so Jesus will return at a time when people do not expect it.

(See also: [[../kt/bless.md]], [[../other/criminal.md]], [[../kt/crucify.md]], [[../kt/darkness.md]],[[../other/destroyer.md]], [[../kt/power.md]], [[../other/samaria.md]], [[../kt/satan.md]])

## Bible References: ##

* [2 Peter 03:10](en/tn/2pe/help/03/10)
* [Luke 12:33-34](en/tn/luk/help/12/33)
* [Mark 14:47-50](en/tn/mrk/help/14/47)
* [Proverbs 06:30-31](en/tn/pro/help/06/30)
* [Revelation 03:3-4](en/tn/rev/help/03/03)