# persecute, persecution #

## Definition: ##

The terms "persecute" and "persecution" refer to continually treating a person or a certain group of people in a harsh way that causes harm to them.

 * Persecution can be against one person or many people and usually involves repeated, persistent attacks.
 * The Israelites were persecuted by many different people groups Who attacked them, captured them, and stole things from them.
 * People often persecute other people who have different religious beliefs or who are weaker.
 * The Jewish religious leaders persecuted Jesus because they did not like what he was teaching.
 * After Jesus went back to heaven, the Jewish religious leaders and the Roman government persecuted his followers.
 * The term "persecute" could also be translated as "keep oppressing" or "treat harshly" or "continually mistreat."
 * Ways to translate "persecution" could include,  "harsh mistreatment" or "oppression" or "persistent hurtful treatment"



## Bible References: ##

* [Acts 07:51-53](en/tn/act/help/07/51)
* [Acts 13:50-52](en/tn/act/help/13/50)
* [Galatians 01:13-14](en/tn/gal/help/01/13)
* [John 05:16-18](en/tn/jhn/help/05/16)
* [Mark 10:29-31](en/tn/mrk/help/10/29)
* [Matthew 05:9-10](en/tn/mat/help/05/09)
* [Matthew 05:43-45](en/tn/mat/help/05/43)
* [Matthew 10:21-23](en/tn/mat/help/10/21)
* [Matthew 13:20-21](en/tn/mat/help/13/20)
* [Philippians 03:6-7](en/tn/php/help/03/06)

##Examples from the Bible stories: ##

 * __[33:07](en/tn/obs/help/33/07)__ "The rocky ground is a person who hears God's word and accepts it with joy. But when he experiences hardship or __persecution__, he falls away."
 * __[45:06](en/tn/obs/help/45/06)__ That day many people in Jerusalem started __persecuting__ the followers of Jesus, so the believers fled to other places. 
 * __[46:02](en/tn/obs/help/46/02)__ Saul heard someone say, "Saul! Saul! Why do you __persecute__ me?" Saul asked, "Who are you, Master?" Jesus replied to him, "I am Jesus. You are __persecuting__ me!"
 * __[46:04](en/tn/obs/help/46/04)__ But Ananias said, "Master, I have heard how this man has __persecuted__ the believers."



~~NOCACHE~~