# sin, sinful, sinner, sinning

## Definition

The term "sin" refers to actions, thoughts, and words that are against God's will and laws. Sin can also refer to not doing something that God wants us to do.

* Sin includes anything we do that does not obey or please God, even things that other people don't know about.
* Thoughts and actions that disobey God's will are called "sinful."
* Because Adam sinned, all human beings are born with a sinful nature that controls them. Sometimes the word "sin" refers to this sinful nature. It is also called "flesh" in the Bible.
* A "sinner" is someone who sins, so this applies to every human being.
* Sometimes the word "sinners" was used by religious people like the Pharisees to refer to people who didn't keep the law as well as the Pharisees thought they should.
* The term "sinner" was also given to people who were considered to be worse sinners than other people. For example, this label was given to tax collectors and prostitutes.


## Translation Suggestions



* The term "sin" could be translated with a word or phrase that means, "disobedience to God" or "going against God's will" or "evil behavior or thoughts."
* "To sin" could also be translated as "to disobey God" or "to do wrong."
* Depending on the context, "sinful" could be translated as "wicked" or "immoral" or "evil."
* Depending on the context, the term "sinner" could be translated with a word or phrase that means, "person who sins" or "person who does wrong things" or "person who disobeys God" or "person who disobeys the law."
* The term "sinners" could be translated by a word or phrase that means, "very sinful people" or "people considered to be very sinful" or "immoral people."
* Ways to translate "tax collectors and sinners" could include, "people who collect money for the government, and other very sinful people" or "very sinful people, including