# know, knowledge, make known #

## Definition: ##

To "know" means to understand something or to be aware of a fact. The expression "make known" is an expression that means to tell information.

* The term "knowledge" refers to information that people know. It can apply to knowing things in both the physical and spiritual worlds.
* To "know about" God means to understand facts about him because of what he has revealed to us. 
* To "know" God means to have a relationship with him. This also applies to knowing people.
* To know God's will means to be aware of what he has commanded, or to understand what he wants a person to do.
* To "know the Law" means to be aware of what God has commanded or to understand what God has instructed in the laws he gave to Moses.
* Sometimes "knowledge" is used as a synonym for "wisdom," which includes living in a way that is pleasing to God.
* The "knowledge of God" is sometimes used as a synonym for the "fear of Yahweh."

## Translation Suggestions ##

* Depending on the context, ways to translate "know" could include, "understand" or "be familiar with" or "be aware of" or "be acquainted with" or "be in relationship with."
* Some languages have two different words for "know" depending on whether it refers to knowing facts or to knowing a person and having a relationship with him.
* The term "make known" could be translated as "cause people to know" or "reveal" or "tell about" or "explain."
* To "know about" something could be translated as "be aware of" or "be familiar with."
* The expression "know how to" means to understand the process or method of getting something done. It could also be translated as, "be able to" or "have the skill to."
* The term "knowledge" could also be translated as, "what is known" or "wisdom" or "understanding," depending on the context.



## Bible References: ##

* [1 Corinthians 02:12-13](en/tn/1co/help/02/12)
* [1 Samuel 17:46-47](en/tn/1sa/help/17/46)
* [2 Corinthians 02:14-15](en/tn/2co/help/02/14)
* [2 Peter 01:3-4](en/tn/2pe/help/01/03)
* [Deuteronomy 04:39-40](en/tn/deu/help/04/39)
* [Genesis 19:4-5](en/tn/gen/help/19/04)
* [Luke 01:76-77](en/tn/luk/help/01/76)