# tomb, grave, burial place #

## Definition: ##

The terms "tomb" and "grave" refer to a place where people put the body of a person who has died. A "burial place" is a more general term that also refers to this.

* The Jews sometimes used natural caves as tombs, and sometimes they dug caves into rock in the side of a hill.
* In New Testament times, it was common to roll a large, heavy stone in front of the opening of a tomb in order to close it.
* If the word for a tomb or a grave can only refer to a hole in which the body is placed below the ground, other ways to translate this could include, "cave" or "hole in the side of a hill."
* The phrase "the grave" is often used generally and figuratively to refer to the condition of being dead or a place where the souls of dead people are.



## Bible References: ##

* [Acts 02:29-31](en/tn/act/help/02/29)
* [Genesis 23:5-6](en/tn/gen/help/23/05)
* [Genesis 50:4-6](en/tn/gen/help/50/04)
* [John 19:40-42](en/tn/jhn/help/19/40)
* [Luke 23:52-53](en/tn/luk/help/23/52)
* [Mark 05:1-2](en/tn/mrk/help/05/01)
* [Matthew 27:51-53](en/tn/mat/help/27/51)
* [Romans 03:13-14](en/tn/rom/help/03/13)

##Examples from the Bible stories: ##

* __[32:04](en/tn/obs/help/32/04)__ The man lived among the __tombs__  in the area.
* __[37:06](en/tn/obs/help/37/06)__ Jesus asked them, "Where have you put Lazarus?" They told him, "In the __tomb__. Come and see."
* __[37:07](en/tn/obs/help/37/07)__ The __tomb__  was a cave with a stone rolled in front of its opening.
* __[40:09](en/tn/obs/help/40/09)__ Then Joseph and Nicodemus, two Jewish leaders who believed Jesus was the Messiah, asked Pilate for Jesus' body. They wrapped his body in cloth and placed it in a __tomb__  cut out of rock. Then they rolled a large stone in front the __tomb__  to block the opening.
* __[41:04](en/tn/obs/help/41/04)__ He (the angel) rolled away the stone that was covering the entrance to the __tomb__  and sat on it. The soldiers guarding the __tomb__  were terrified and fell to the ground like dead men.
* __[41:05](en/tn/obs/help/41/05)__ When the women arrived at the __tomb__, the angel told them, "Do not be afraid. Jesus is not here. He has risen from the dead, just like he said he would! Look in the __tomb__  and see." The women looked into the __tomb__  and saw where Jesus' body had been laid. His body was not there!


~~NOCACHE~~