# foundation, founded #

## Definition: ##

The verb "found" means build, create, or lay a base for. The phrase "founded on" means supported by or based on. A "foundation" is the base of support on which something is built or created.

* The foundation of a house or building must be strong and dependable in order to support the entire structure.
* The term "foundation" can also refer to the beginning of something or to the time when something was first created.
* In a figurative sense, believers in Christ are compared to a building that is founded on the teachings of the apostles and prophets, with Christ himself being the cornerstone of the building.
* A "foundation stone" was a stone that was laid as part of the foundation. These stones were tested to make sure they were strong enough to support an entire building.

## Translation Suggestions: ##

* The phrase "before the foundation of the world" could be translated as "before the creation of the world" or "before the time when the world first existed" or "before everything was first created."
* The term "founded on" could be translated as "securely built on" or "firmly based on."
* Depending on the context, "foundation" could be translated as "strong base" or "solid support" or "beginning" or "creation."

(See also: [[kt/cornerstone]], [[other/creation]])

## Bible References: ##

* [1 Kings 06:37-38](en/tn/1ki/help/06/37)
* [2 Chronicles 03:1-3](en/tn/2ch/help/03/01)
* [Ezekiel 13:13-14](en/tn/ezk/help/13/13)
* [Luke 14:28-30](en/tn/luk/help/14/28)
* [Matthew 13:34-35](en/tn/mat/help/13/34)
* [Matthew 25:34-36](en/tn/mat/help/25/34)