# sheep, ram, ewe #

## Definition: ##

A "sheep" is a medium-sized animal with four legs that has wool all over its body. The male sheep is called a "ram." The female sheep is called a "ewe."

* A baby sheep is called a "lamb."
* The Israelites often used sheep for sacrifices, especially males and young sheep.
* People eat meat from sheep and use their wool to make clothing and other things.
* Sheep are very trusting, weak, and timid. They are easily influenced to wander away. They need a shepherd to lead them, protect them, and provide them with food, water, and shelter.
* In the Bible, people are compared to sheep who have God as their shepherd.

(Translation suggestions: [How to Translate Unknowns](en/ta-vol1/translate/man/translate-unknown))

(See also: [[other/israel]], [[kt/lamb]], [[other/sacrifice]], [[other/shepherd]])

## Bible References: ##

* [Acts 08:32-33](en/tn/act/help/08/32)
* [Genesis 30:31-32](en/tn/gen/help/30/31)
* [John 02:13-14](en/tn/jhn/help/02/13)
* [Luke 15:3-5](en/tn/luk/help/15/03)
* [Mark 06:33-34](en/tn/mrk/help/06/33)
* [Matthew 09:35-36](en/tn/mat/help/09/35)
* [Matthew 10:5-7](en/tn/mat/help/10/05)
* [Matthew 12:11-12](en/tn/mat/help/12/11)
* [Matthew 25:31-33](en/tn/mat/help/25/31)

## Examples from the Bible stories: ##

* __[09:12](en/tn/obs/help/09/12)__ One day while Moses was taking care of his __sheep__, he saw a bush that was on fire.
* __[17:02](en/tn/obs/help/17/02)__ David was a shepherd from the town of Bethlehem. At different times while he was watching his father's __sheep__, David had killed both a lion and a bear that had attacked the __sheep__.
* __[30:03](en/tn/obs/help/30/03)__ To Jesus, these people were like __sheep__  without a shepherd.
* __[38:08](en/tn/obs/help/38/08)__ Jesus said, "All of you will all abandon me tonight. It is written, 'I will strike the shepherd and all the __sheep__  will be scattered.'"