# sow, sower, plant #

## Definition: ##

To "sow" means to put seeds in the ground in order to grow plants. A "sower" is a person who sows or plants seeds.

* The method of sowing or planting varies, but one method is to take handfuls of seeds and scatter them on the ground.
* Another method for planting seeds is to make holes in the soil and place seeds in each hole.
* The term "sow" can be used figuratively as in, "a person will reap what he sows." This means that if a person does something evil, he will receive a negative result. And if a person does good to others, he will receive a positive result.

## Translations Suggestions ##

* The term "sow" could also be translated as "plant." Make sure the word used to translate this can include planting seeds.
* Other ways to translate "sower" could include, "planter" or "farmer" or "person who plants seeds."
* In English, "sow" is only used for planting seeds, but the English word "plant" can be used for planting seeds as well as larger things, such as trees. Other languages may also use different words depending on what is being planted.
* The expression, "a person reaps what he sows" could also be translated as, "just like a certain kind of seed produces a certain kind of plant, in the same way a person's good actions will bring a good result and a person's evil actions will bring an evil result."

(See also: [[kt/evil]] **·** [[kt/good]] **·** [[other/reap]])

## Bible References: ##

* [Galatians 06:6-8](en/tn/gal/help/06/06)
* [Luke 08:4-6](en/tn/luk/help/08/04)
* [Matthew 06:25-26](en/tn/mat/help/06/25)
* [Matthew 13:3-6](en/tn/mat/help/13/03)
* [Matthew 13:18-19](en/tn/mat/help/13/18)
* [Matthew 25:24-25](en/tn/mat/help/25/24)