# miracle, wonder, sign

## Definition

A "miracle" is something amazing that is not possible unless God causes it to happen.

* Examples of miracles that Jesus did include calming a storm and healing a blind man.
* Miracles are sometimes called "wonders" because they cause people to be filled with wonder or amazement.
* The term "wonder" can also refer more generally to amazing displays of God's power, such as when he created the heavens and the earth.
* Miracles can also be called "signs" because they are used as indicators or evidence that God is the all-powerful one who has complete authority over the universe.
* Some miracles were God's acts of redemption, such as when he rescued the Israelites from being slaves in Egypt and when he protected Daniel from being hurt by lions.
* Other wonders were God's acts of judgment, such as when he sent a worldwide flood in Noah's time and when he brought terrible plagues on the land of Egypt during the time of Moses.
* Many of God's miracles were the physical healings of sick people or bringing dead people back to life.
* God's power was shown in Jesus when he healed people, calmed storms, walked on water, and raised people from the dead. These were all miracles.
* God also enabled the prophets and the apostles to perform miracles of healing and other things that were only possible through God's power.


## Translation Suggestions



* Possible translations of "miracles" or "wonders" could include, "impossible things that God does" or "powerful works of God" or "amazing acts of God."
* The frequent expression "signs and wonders" could be translated as "proofs and miracles" or "miraculous works that prove God's power" or "amazing miracles that show how great God is."
* Note that this meaning of a miraculous sign is different from a sign that gives proof or evidence for something. The two can be related.