# cherubim, cherub #

## Definition: ##

The term "cherub," and its plural form "cherubim," refer to a special type of heavenly being that God created. The Bible describes cherubim as having wings and flames. 

* The cherubim display the glory and power of God and seem to be guardians of sacred things.
* After Adam and Eve sinned, God placed cherubim with flaming swords at the east side of the Garden of Eden so that people could no longer get to the tree of life.
* God commanded the Israelites to carve two cherubim facing each other, with their wings touching, over the atonement lid of the ark of the covenant.
* He also told them to weave pictures of the cherubim into the curtains of the tabernacle.
* In some passages, these creatures are also described as having four faces: of a man, a lion, an ox, and an eagle.
* Cherubim are sometimes thought of as being angels, but the Bible does not clearly state that. 

## Translation Suggestions: ##

* The term "cherubim" could be translated as "creatures with wings" or "guardians with wings" or "winged spiritual guardians" or "holy, winged guardians."
* A "cherub" should be translated as the singular of cherubim, as in, "creature with wings" or "winged spiritual guardian," for example.
* Make sure that the translation of this term is different from the translation of "angel."
* Also consider how this term is translated or written in a Bible translation in a local or national language. (See: [How to Translate Unknowns](en/ta-vol1/translate/man/translate-unknown))



## Bible References: ##

* [1 Chronicles 13:5-6](en/tn/1ch/help/13/05)
* [1 Kings 06:23-26](en/tn/1ki/help/06/23)
* [Exodus 25:15-18](en/tn/exo/help/25/15)
* [Ezekiel 09:3-4](en/tn/ezk/help/09/03)
* [Genesis 03:22-24](en/tn/gen/help/03/22)