# preach #

## Definition: ##

To "preach" means to speak to a  group of people, teaching them about God and urging them to obey him.

 * Often preaching is done by one person to a large group of people. It is usually spoken, not written.
 * "Preaching" and "teaching" are similar, but are not exactly the same.
 * "Preaching" mainly refers to publicly proclaiming spiritual or moral truth, and urging the audience to respond. "Teaching" is a term that emphasizes instruction, that is, giving people information or teaching them how to do something.
 * The term "preach" is usually used with the word "gospel."
 * What a person has preached to others can also be referred to in general as his "teachings."

(See also: [[kt/goodnews]], [[kt/jesus]], [[kt/kingdomofgod]])

## Bible References: ##

* [2 Timothy 04:1-2](en/tn/2ti/help/04/01)
* [Acts 08:4-5](en/tn/act/help/08/04)
* [Acts 10:42-43](en/tn/act/help/10/42)
* [Acts 14:21-22](en/tn/act/help/14/21)
* [Acts 20:25-27](en/tn/act/help/20/25)
* [Luke 04:42-44](en/tn/luk/help/04/42)
* [Matthew 03:1-3](en/tn/mat/help/03/01)
* [Matthew 04:17](en/tn/mat/help/04/17)
* [Matthew 12:41](en/tn/mat/help/12/41)
* [Matthew 24:12-14](en/tn/mat/help/24/12)

## Examples from the Bible stories: ##

  __*[24:02](en/tn/obs/help/24/02)__ He (John) __preached__ to them, saying, "Repent, for the Kingdom of God is near!"
  __*[30:01](en/tn/obs/help/30/01)__ Jesus sent his apostles to __preach__ and to teach people in many different villages. 
  __*[38:01](en/tn/obs/help/38/01)__ About three years after Jesus first began __preaching__ and teaching publicly, Jesus told his disciples that he wanted to celebrate this Passover with them in Jerusalem, and that he would be killed there.
  __*[45:06](en/tn/obs/help/45/06)__ But in spite of this, they __preached__ about Jesus everywhere they went.
  __*[45:07](en/tn/obs/help/45/07)__ He (Philip) went to Samaria where he preached about Jesus and many people were saved. 
  __*[46:06](en/tn/obs/help/46/06)__ Right away, Saul began __preaching__ to the Jews in Damascus, saying, "Jesus is the Son of God!" 
  __*[46:10](en/tn/obs/help/46/10)__ Then they sent them off to __preach__ the good news of Jesus in many other places. 
  __*[47:14](en/tn/obs/help/47/14)__ Paul and other Christian leaders traveled to many cities, __preaching__ and teaching people the good news about Jesus. 
  __*[50:02](en/tn/obs/help/50/02)__ When Jesus was living on earth he said, "My disciples will __preach__ the good news about the kingdom of God to people everywhere in the world, and then the end will come."