# Judas Iscariot #

## Facts: ##

Judas Iscariot was one of Jesus' apostles. He was the one who betrayed Jesus to the Jewish leaders.

* The name "Iscariot" may mean "from Kerioth," perhaps indicating that Judas grew up in that city.
* Judas Iscariot managed the apostles' money and regularly stole some of it to use for himself.
* Judas betrayed Jesus by telling the religious leaders where Jesus was so they could arrest him.
* After the religious leaders condemned Jesus to die, Judas regretted that he had betrayed Jesus, so he gave the betrayal money back to the Jewish leaders and then killed himself.
* Another apostle was also named Judas, as was one of Jesus' brothers, There are other men named Judas in the Bible, such as Jesus' brother and another apostle. Jesus' brother was also known as "Jude."

(Translation suggestions: [Translate Names](en/ta-vol1/translate/man/translate-names))

(See also: [[kt/apostle]], [[kt/betray]], [[other/jewishleaders]], [[other/judassonofjames]])

## Bible References: ##

* [Luke 06:14-16](en/tn/luk/help/06/14)
* [Luke 22:47-48](en/tn/luk/help/22/47)
* [Mark 03:17-19](en/tn/mrk/help/03/17)
* [Mark 14:10-11](en/tn/mrk/help/14/10)
* [Matthew 26:23-25](en/tn/mat/help/26/23)

## Examples from the Bible stories: ##

* __[38:02](en/tn/obs/help/38/02)__ One of Jesus' disciples was a man named __Judas__. … After Jesus and the disciples arrived in Jerusalem, __Judas__  went to the Jewish leaders and offered to betray Jesus to them in exchange for money.
* __[38:03](en/tn/obs/help/38/03)__ The Jewish leaders, led by the high priest, paid __Judas__  thirty silver coins to betray Jesus.
* __[38:14](en/tn/obs/help/38/14)____Judas__  came with the Jewish leaders, soldiers, and a large crowd. They were all carrying swords and clubs. __Judas__  came to Jesus and said, "Greetings, teacher," and kissed him.
* __[39:08](en/tn/obs/help/39/08)__ Meanwhile, __Judas__, the betrayer, saw that the Jewish leaders had condemned Jesus to die. He became full of sorrow and went away and killed himself.